PROJECT DESCRIPTION

During the past few years, music has increasingly been used as a tool for the investigation of human cognition and its underlying brain mechanisms. Music is one of the oldest and most basic socio-cognitive domains of the human species. It is assumed by some that human musical abilities played a key phylogenetical role in the evolution of language, and that music-making behaviour covered important evolutionary functions such as communication, cooperation, social cohesion and group coordination. Likewise, it has been shown that, ontogenetically, musical communication in early childhood plays a major role in the emotional, cognitive and social development of children. Music is a ubiquitous phenomenon: throughout human history, in every human culture, people have played and enjoyed music. Only humans learn to play musical instruments, and only humans play instruments cooperatively together in groups. Enhancing musical intelligence is a tremendously demanding task for the human brain that engages virtually all cognitive processes that we know about, including perception, action, cognition, social cognition, emotion, learning and memory. Therefore, it is significiant to increase the  musical intelligence ability of children in early age. 

On the other hand, we know that children can build robots by coding in these days. What if they create music by using basic codes? We are preparing children for the future by offering several tools to teach coding which is the requirements of the 21st century. The aims of these tools and services are to develop creative thinking skills, speed up mental development, encourages innovative thinking. The best way to increase crative thinking is encouraging to make art and music. That is why, I excited the idea of creating a tool to increase music intelligence for children. My goal is to create a music composition tool for kids owing to develop musical intelligence with coding.  At the end of the project I am expecting to develop a tool to increase audio and visual abilities of children which is easy and fun to use. With this music and visual composition tool, unlimited number of projects can be produced using children's imagination. For the very reason, the specific group could be 8-12 years old children. Also it can be used by people who want to start creative coding for digital sound synthesis. 

I am going to use p5.js to build interactive visuals and sound.js libraries to synthesis sounds. Thanks to Daniel Shiffman tutorials, I learned p5.js for my data visualization projects. Also with Creative Coding for Artistic Performance course I used Supercollider and Processing to visualise sound which produced by sensors. And this year, I am taking Advanced Coding course from Musical Acoustic Engineering department, I have a project with javascript language and sound tools.

As i searched, Processing is tyrying to expand their visual features by  using the ability to augment sketches with audio (Sound 2.0). My dream is be the part of this progress with an social purpose. Moreover, I had a chance to listen Casey Reas and Lauren Mccarthy on Digilouge Istanbul events, I am following Daniel Shiffman from youtube and social media. For me, it would be a pleasure to meet and take advice from the people who I share same passion and interests. 
